# ELIZA-AndroidApp
ELIZA is an early natural language processing computer program created from 1964 to 1966 at the MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory by Joseph Weizenbaum. It was Created to demonstrate the superficiality of communication between humans and machines. Eliza simulated conversation by using a pattern matching and substitution methodology to produce surprisingly life-like responses. It is a simulation of a psychotherapist in an initial psychiatric interview.

Eliza is a rule-based chatbot where input sentences are analyzed on the basis of decomposition rules which are triggered by key words appearing in the input text. Responses are generated by reassembly rules associated with selected decomposition rules.

In this project, We developed a complete speech enabled  chatbot where the user will interact with the chatbot in Hindi language. The chatbot development can be classified into 3 categories: Android Application Development, Generating Eliza Responses and Speech Interaction with user.

Android Application Development -

I used the software – Android Studio for developing the Android Application for Hindi Eliza.
The Android App Api can be downloaded from the link: Hindi_Eliza. The App has to be installed and used in an Android Smartphone.

The user needs to change the keyboard to Hindi Language which translates english to hindi while typing. If the option is not available, the user has to download the Hindi Keyboard from settings. 

On opening the application, the user is greeted by Eliza with the following message: आप कैसे हैं। कृपया मुझे अपनी समस्या बताएं।

The User needs to talk with the Chatbot either by typing in the message box or by speaking using 
the speech icon to the right with the keyboard set to Hindi language.

The User Interface of the App can be seen from the picture.

